Update smart cast documentation for Kotlin 2.0.0 (#4201)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/typecasts.md

}
```

The compiler is even smart enough to know that a cast is safe if a negative check leads to a return:

```kotlin
if (x !is String) return

print(x.length) // x is automatically cast to String
```

### Control flow

Smart casts work not only for `if` conditional expressions but also for [`when` expressions](control-flow.md#when-expression)
and [`while` loops](control-flow.md#while-loops):

```kotlin
when (x) {
    is Int -> print(x + 1)
    is String -> print(x.length + 1)
    is IntArray -> print(x.sum())
}
```

From Kotlin 2.0.0, if you declare a variable before using it in your `if`, `when`, or `while` condition, then any

> information collected by the compiler about the variable will be accessible in the condition statement and its block for

Author: I used your suggestion but with "corresponding" instead.

smart-casting.

This can be useful when you want to do things like extract boolean conditions into variables. Then, you can give the
variable a meaningful name, which will improve your code readability and make it possible to reuse the variable later
in your code. For example:

```kotlin
class Cat {
    fun purr() {
        println("Purr purr")
    }
}

fun petAnimal(animal: Any) {
    val isCat = animal is Cat
    if (isCat) {
        // In Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler can access
        // information about isCat, so it knows that
        // animal was smart-cast to the type Cat.

>         // Therefore, the purr() function is successfully called.

Author: I went for "the purr() function can be called". What do you think?

    fun signal() {}
}

interface Ok : Status
interface Postponed : Status
interface Declined : Status

fun signalCheck(signalStatus: Any) {
    if (signalStatus is Postponed || signalStatus is Declined) {
        // signalStatus is smart-cast to a common supertype Status
        signalStatus.signal()
    }
}
```

> The common supertype is an **approximation** of a [union type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_type). Union types
> are [not currently supported in Kotlin](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-13108/Denotable-union-and-intersection-types).
>
{type="note"}

### Inline functions

From Kotlin 2.0.0, the compiler can smart-cast variables captured within lambda functions that are passed to [inline functions](inline-functions.md).

Inline functions are treated as having an implicit [`callsInPlace`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.contracts/-contract-builder/calls-in-place.html)
contract. This means that any lambda functions passed to an inline function are called in place. Since lambda functions
are called in place, the compiler knows that a lambda function can't leak references to any variables contained within
its function body.

> The compiler uses this knowledge, along with other analyses to decide whether it's safe to smart-cast any of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compiler uses this knowledge, along with other analyses, to decide whether it's safe to smart-cast any of the
```

captured variables. For example:

```kotlin
interface Processor {
    fun process()
}

inline fun inlineAction(f: () -> Unit) = f()

fun nextProcessor(): Processor? = null

fun runProcessor(): Processor? {
    var processor: Processor? = null
    inlineAction {
        // The compiler knows that processor is a local variable and inlineAction()
        // is an inline function, so references to processor can't be leaked.
        // Therefore, it's safe to smart-cast processor.
      
        // If processor isn't null, processor is smart-cast
        if (processor != null) {
            // The compiler knows that processor isn't null, so no safe call 
            // is needed
            processor.process()
        }

        processor = nextProcessor()
    }

    return processor
}
```

### Exception handling

From Kotlin 2.0.0, smart cast information is passed on to `catch` and `finally` blocks. This change makes your code safer

> as the compiler keeps track of whether your object has a nullable type. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as the compiler tracks whether your object has a nullable type. For example:
```

## "Unsafe" cast operator

To explicitly cast an object to a non-nullable type, use the *unsafe* cast operator `as`:

```kotlin
val x: String = y as String
```

If the cast isn't possible, the compiler throws an exception. This is why it's called _unsafe_.

In the previous example, if `y` is `null`, the code above also throws an exception. This is because `null` can't be cast to `String`, as `null` isn't [nullable](null-safety.md).
To make the example work for possible null values, use a nullable type on the right-hand side of the cast:

```kotlin
val x: String? = y as String?
```

## "Safe" (nullable) cast operator

> To explicitly cast an object to a nullable type, use the *safe* cast operator `as?`:

Reviewer 2: "explicitly cast an object to a nullable type" is technically incorrect

`y as String?` - cast to a nullable type
`y as? String` - it's just a safe-cast

The difference is that if `y` has an unrelated type (e.g. `Int`), safe-cast will return `null`, but cast to nullable will throw an Exception

Author: As discussed, reverted to previous text.
